---
description: 'Step 2: Planning out the plan'
---

# Planning

One of the most important steps in a project as big as this one is planning. We need to figure out what our needs are and how to break it down in big and small steps.

## The needs

As I cited earlier, we've recieved some basic requirements for Pandora, so I started with that:

_Mr. Sens has just hired you to start and shape his new company together. You are responsible for rolling out all IT infrastructure. In addition, you get to choose the name and corresponding domain name of this company so that it can be found optimally via Google and other search engines. In addition, multiple investors have been attracted so budgetary purchases are not an issue._

_**The headquarters will be provided in a new office building in Ghent. Twenty workstations are provided here.**_

* _Room 1 - Administration & Sales - 6x_
* _Room 2 - IT - 2x (Pierre & Annick)_
* _Room 3 - Management - 1x (Mr. J. Sens)_
* _Room 4 - Meeting room - 6x_
* _Room 5 - Reception area - 1x_
* _Room 6 - Consultants - 4x_

_**A smaller office is also planned in Aalst. Here we foresee 5 workplaces:**_

* _Room 1 - open workspace - 3x_
* _Room 2 - admin & sales - 2x_



_**Set up a complete infrastructure for this company. This implementation includes:**_

1. _Manage the entire computer park, distributed across the 2 different branches. Specifically, this means choosing the hardware (including cabling) needed._
2. _Manage the server park including solutions for storage, all according to your own choice (on premise - hybrid - cloud). All on-prem servers are created virtually in VmWare or GNS3._
3. _You also map the entire network on a detailed network diagram, you also defend your choice regarding internet access and backup line. Provide both a wired and wireless network in all classrooms._
4. _Work out all network infrastructure virtually (both LAN and VLAN and WAN). You should be able to create a working simulation/emulation in GNS3 or Packet Tracer._
5. _Choice of OS and product is completely free: open/closed source or hybrid, VMWare-HPE-Cisco-Fortigate, ..._
6. _Wherever possible use virtualization (servers but clients also can)._
7. _An office - and email implementation (will probably still only be Office 365 but may also be open source)._
8. _A backup and imaging solution with a working backup - and restore plan._
9. _Apply an automatic deployment system such as WDS/MDT/SCOM and be able to a simulation of this._
10. _Choice of storage solutions is also free but should fit your budget. SAN/vSAN/NAS._
11. _Overview of licenses._
12. _You also take care of all security on the devices as well as between network devices. Consider the firewalls on both branches! Make sure all traffic is encrypted between branches via a site to site VPN._
13. _You set up an internal website with domain name (no public domain required), which you provide with an https certificate generated by your own in-house CA on which you put all communications about the company (think hnet from Hogent)._
14. _Also provide remote capability and consider traffic spikes, security product of your choice._
15. _Finally, provide an answer to the "What if?" question. What if x or y goes down? Provide a high availability solution or redundancy where needed._

## The needs, but tidier

This is alot. I wanted to have a tidier view of what the requirments were and where to begin. So with every of the 15 steps I asked myself some question:

* Is this a administrative, system or networking task?
* If a system task, what system do I need to use (software, hardware, ...). Is this really important for other tasks?
* Is this a time-consuming task?

After asking myself all of these questions on every task, I had a plan.
